Decred was deliberately designed prevent powerful individuals or central planning committees from gaining a disproportionate influence over the future of the project. Decred governance has its foundations in the [Decred constitution](https://docs.decred.org/governance/decred-constitution/) - a set of principles and guidelines that provide users a clear understanding of the social contract between themselves and the project. 

The Decred governance system is designed to allow the Decred community to decide upon anything ranging from protocol changes to decentralized treasury allocations. Governance in Decred works through a combination of on-chain and off-chain mechanisms. All Decred governance decisions are legitimized via its on-chain governance system; however, off-chain, is where the governance process begins.

__Politeia__

Every Decred governance proposal begin on [Politeia](https://proposals.decred.org/) (Pi). Politeia is a web platform that supports facilitates the submission, tracking, and discussion of Decred governance proposals by the stakeholder community. Anyone is free to submit new proposals for consideration. Once submitted proposals are reviewed by Politeia admins where they can censor spam proposals. However, to ensure transparency over what's being censored, All data on Politeia is periodically anchored into the Decred blockchain, using [dcrtime](https://docs.decred.org/advanced/dcrtime/), and users can [prove censorship cryptographically](https://docs.decred.org/governance/politeia/politeia-censorship/) if censorship occurs. Valid proposals appear publicly on Politeia, where discussion and revision take place. Once a proposal owner is confident in their proposal they can authorize voting on it. Owners authorize voting on their proposals by paying a 0.1 DCR fee. Once voting is authorized the on-chain governance process begins.

__Consensus Rule Voting__

For governance proposals related to consensus rule changes, the process begins, like every proposal, with the Politeia system. Initial proposals for consensus changes are brought to life through the Politeia system in order to determine if the work necessary to create a working implementation, its associated [Decred Change Proposal](https://github.com/decred/dcps) (DCP), and an on-chain vote for the rule change should be performed. Once a proposal has successfully gone through the Politea system, it then begins life as a DCP. DCPs are similar to [BIPs](https://messari.io/article/bitcoin-improvement-proposal-bip) in Bitcoin. DCPs are design documents describing protocol or consensus changes to Decred. After a DCP is written new software which implements the proposed change developed and released. Once released the on-chain governance process begins.
