__Politeia__

Once a proposal is authorized a ticket-voting interval of 2,016 (~1 week) begins. To start, a snapshot of the live ticket pool is taken at 256 blocks prior to the start of voting. Every ticket in the pool when this snapshot was taken can vote ‘Yes’ or ‘No’ on the proposal. If a ticket is called to vote on-chain during the ticket-voting interval (to validate blocks or vote on consensus rule changes), it still has until the end of the ticket-voting interval to vote on the proposal. When the voting period ends, a proposal is formally approved or rejected. In order for a vote to be considered valid there must be a quorum of 20% of the eligible tickets who vote ‘Yes’ or ‘No’. The threshold for a proposal to be approved is 60% ‘Yes’ votes. If the proposal has a budget and deliverables attached to it the proposal owner can submit claims against the budget as deliverables are completed.

__Consensus Rule Voting__

Once new software is released both PoW miners and PoS voters must independently adopt the software with the code changes; however, the code changes will lie dormant until the change has been voted upon.The voting period is activated once a target adoption threshold is reach for the PoW miners and PoS voters. The PoW upgrade is consdiered complete once 95% of the latest 1,000 blocks are mined with the latest version. The PoS upgrade is considered complete once 75% of the votes in a complete [stake version interval](https://docs.decred.org/glossary/#stake-version-interval-svi) (An interval which is used to determine if a vote on consensus rule changes can begin which occurs every 2,016 blocks or ~1 week) are cast using the latest version. Once both thresholds are met, voting is scheduled to begin on the first block of the next [rule change interval](https://docs.decred.org/glossary/#rule-change-interval-rci) (an interval in which ticket holders can vote on consensus rule changes that occurs every 8,064 blocks or ~4 weeks). 

Once the voting period begins, ticket holders vote on the changes over a rule change interval. Every vote has a quorum requirement of 10% (voters who are not abstaining). If that requirement is met, a 75% "Yes" or "No" majority threshold is required for a vote to pass. If the outcome is "Yes", the consensus changes will automatically update 8,064 blocks after the vote passed. All participants in the Decred network must upgrade their software to the latest version during this window. If the outcome is "No", the consensus changes will never active. If the majority threshold is not met the consensus rule change will remain active for the next rule change interval. If it fails to reach an outcome again the consensus change will expire and never activate.
