Decred is a hybrid proof-of-work (PoW) proof-of-stake (PoS) network with on-chain governance and a decentralized treasury. Decred, the protocol, is a distributed, time-stamped ledger of [unspent transaction output](https://messari.io/article/utxo) (UTXO) transfers stored in an append-only chain of dynamic-sized data blocks. A network of mining and economic nodes maintains this blockchain by validating, propagating, and competing to include pending transactions ([mempool](https://messari.io/article/mempool)) in new blocks. Economic nodes (aka "full nodes") receive transactions from other network participants, validate them against network consensus rules and double-spend vectors, and propagate the transactions to other full nodes that also validate and propagate. Valid transactions are sent to the network's mempool waiting for mining nodes to confirm them via inclusion in the next block.

Mining nodes work to empty the mempool usually in a highest-to-lowest fee order by picking transactions to include in the next block and racing against each other to generate a hash less than the target number set by Decred's difficulty adjustment algorithm. Decred uses a Proof-of-Work (PoW) consensus mechanism to establish the chain of blocks with the most accumulated “work” (a.k.a., energy spent on solved hashes) as the valid chain. Decred also uses a Proof-of-Stake (PoS) consensus mechanism to validate blocks submitted by miners (and vote on Decred governance proposals). The PoS layer serves to provide a check on miner power.

Decred is actively pursuing integration with the Lightning network. So users can initiate payments across Bitcoin’s network with its native token DCR and potentially hold multiple assets in Decredition, the Decred wallet solution. Additional steps required to release the decentralized exchange they are focused on building.

Currently, the project is adding support for Decentralized Autonomous Entities, DAEs, of which the Politeia is the first example. So users can band together with like-minded individuals to create organizations to support their missions.
